# Explanation

For Higher, you rarely need to produce the design yourself, although you may be asked to make refinements.

You must be able to work with modular designs, using structure diagrams and pseudocode (flowcharts are not used at Higher), including data flow and a main algorithm/refinements where relevant. 

All of this is covered on the next few pages.



For Higher, your programs will be broken down into modules. These are smaller chunks of program that do a particular thing. The program has a main algorithm and lots of modules (also called sub-programs). Modules are generally self-contained. Data can be passed into them and back out - this is called the data flow.
Each step in the algorithm is usually broken down into a module.
Consider the following structure diagram for a program to find and display the most-downloaded song on an online streaming platform:
 

The main steps of the algorithm are laid out. Each step could be implemented as a module.
Data from one step could flow in or out (this is called the data flow) and would be passed to the next module.
Modular programming is useful because it allows different programmers to work on each module (in practice, this might be a team of programmers) This fits well with an agile approach to development, since the task is broken down into smaller chunks that can be developed independently.
Each module can be independently tested. Then later, the modules are tested interacting with each other.

Modular programming is useful because errors in one module do not need to affect another. Modules should usually be created with local variables. This means that a variable created locally (in the module) can only be used in that module. It stops the rest of the program accidentally changing the value of a variable. Variables that can be used anywhere in the program are called global variables. These are more susceptible to errors, as two modules might try to use the same variable or variable-name at the same time, causing a logic error.
Local variables are preferred because they are more modular. There is more on local and global variables (known as variable scope) in the practical workbook.

